if your wage hasn't been keeping up with
inflation you're not alone I'm going to
show you the data today which has gone
even beyond my expectations we are
looking at what has been going on over
the past several years it's pretty
obvious you print a lot of money you
create a lot of inflation and you hurt
the average person you hurt the middle
class and this only gets worse as time
goes on if they don't change their
policies so we're going to look at
what's happening and then I'm going to
talk about what you the individual need
to do all of that and more let's begin I
wanted to show you what's happening with
this first from Jamie demon this is a
quote he says that it's a huge mistake
to think that the economy will boom so
many risks are out there today
of course you've got the quantitative
tightening you've got the Ukraine war
you've got governments around the world
spending like drunken Sailors to say
that the consumer is strong today
meaning that you're going to have
booming environment for years is a huge
mistake now I don't like to necessarily
give him credit but this is accurate of
course we are seeing so many different
things and those are just a few so we
have to start paying attention to the
details I'll give you some wild examples
as you see it's not your imagination
shopping in person is getting worse
stores have fewer workers than they used
to and are resorting to keeping more of
their products locked up I've shown you
several examples of it you are going to
go into a world right now where the
retail is really more like you know a
warehouse type of environment where
you're going to speak to the clerk at
the front I have heard directly from you
people in the mentorship group bringing
me information saying hey I went to IKEA
and now I just get up there and there's
a locker and I open the locker and I get
my goods out no longer am I speaking to
a human no interaction there everything
is being done online everything is
through the app now but also the whole
retail environment is going to change
where you don't necessarily directly
interact with the product you don't
touch it you don't feel it so you have a
different experience unless this is
coming at the high end the luxury Market
that's a whole different world but
that's not for the average product
that's not for the average person either
and so you can see these changes
happening before our very eyes and I
asked the question are we in Gotham is
that what we're coming to today it seems
like it in many cases now this is where
it went beyond my expectations I knew
debt was getting bad but here we have it
average American household now has ten
thousand dollar credit card debt and I
you know it depends how you look at a
household versus average credit card you
know the the numbers are always changing
depends what we're including based on a
survey like there's so many different
things but anyway we're looking at ten
thousand dollars for a household it just
shows us
that ultimately you can't pay that back
22 to 26 depending on the measurements
we're looking at are you going to be
able to pay that back that is a
never-ending hole that's being dug 22 to
28 26 something like this depending on
the credit card depending on your credit
rating all those factors and you're
going to pay ten thousand dollars it's
just going to be a never-ending cycle
until they claim bankruptcy or somebody
bails them out or something changes but
often that does not occur right
confliction was so bad last year that
real household income tumbled the most
in 12 years causing families severe
economic pain these might be the
circumstances for you and you might be
seeing this but don't lose hope I don't
want to see that here on this channel
when we talk about these things we just
want to be ready and willing to take the
truth and that's what this is all about
but I've got some things that you need
to watch out for at the end of each
video I do this like the what can I do
about it scenario and that's what you
need to focus on yes we're getting the
data but what do we do about it hit that
thumbs up if you are one of those who
agree with me that we can't just sit
back and say nope I'm not participating
no we have to for our families they need
us right now we are the ones who are
informed we're trying to be informed
we're trying to do our best and they are
just simply not going to be there to
wake up we got to be those people adults
are ordering from the kids menus to save
money I heard this heartbreaking in a
sense I also think that maybe you know
when you look at what they're ordering
and things hey I'm going out to the fast
food restaurant I'm ordering this I'm
going to the restaurant and ordering
that you know they talk about how
fantastic it is to get a full meal for
seven dollars if you are in Dire Straits
if you are in these you know severe
economic pain you can you gotta adjust
things okay maybe you want to eat at
these places but maybe just buying
oatmeal and just sticking with that for
a little while save some money okay and
now I can about have a balanced
lifestyle sometimes you've got to be
hardcore about these things it's just a
matter of fact you can't get those
treats you can't get those fun things in
your life sometimes when we need to
hunker down when we need to do things
we've got to be extreme sometimes and
then we could see the benefits of that
all later uh just connected with that
interestingly McDonald's digital sales
made up of app delivery and kiosk
purchases accounted for almost 40
percent of system-wide sales for the
second quarter of 2023 so I'm just
showing you here that the world is
changing we are disconnecting from
person to person and we are going
through the technology so people are
becoming more comfortable with it even
if you'd say I don't like it this and
that people are becoming more
comfortable with it and that's the way
that the systems are being built today
and so as a result expect more
automation more robotics less human
capital is needed and looking at it you
know from the businesses they can
increase their profitability so the more
automation that they can use that means
the more profitability potentially that
they can have so you could look at that
as an investor you could look at it you
know and where you are as an individual
U.S incomes fail for the third straight
year just showing us again when we
factor in inflation guess what's
happening you're not alone in this
you're not alone okay A lot of people
are in the circumstance today but don't
give up why more baby boomers are
sliding into homelessness this is just
heartbreaking again just showing us that
many people are
dealing with problems uh they they had
this one I just thought it was
interesting the U.S states where child
care costs more than college tuition
I wanted to look at it in a different
way to just highlight the fact that both
of them are at you know they're just
accelerating so fast healthcare costs
and even in a place that has free health
care okay like Canada it's not
necessarily free you gotta understand
this and a lot of times you can sidestep
a lot of the extreme wait times by
simply paying and you do because
everyone's got access so you want an MRI
absolutely no problem six months nine
months uh that's not really gonna be
okay if you've got a condition that
requires an MRI it's not for fun that
you want the MRI do you want to wait the
six months or nine months or do you want
to pay two thousand twenty five hundred
bucks okay I'll pay the money so is it
free yeah
but you got to wait in line and then of
course if you want particular drugs if
you want something you know you're only
allowed a certain allotment if you want
more than that for something then you've
got to pay for it anyway the point is
increased costs are everywhere who's
making money big pharma's making money
and of course with the schools these
schools operate like hedge funds have
you ever seen some of these it's
ridiculous they're making more money
than ever before your tuition goes up
they take that they invest that capital
and they are profitable so profitable
not even about your tuition and your
books and the teachers and all that
they're running it like a business all
right now we're going to talk about oil
because this is the inflation sensation
that's taking place right now as I
record this video of course going to be
different by the time you watch it but
you've got oil at approximately ninety
dollars a barrel
and the oil Market hasn't felt the full
impact of Saudi Arabia's Cuts yet
they're suggesting that oil could go
beyond 100 if its output remains low and
that's the question for you do you
believe that oil is going to go beyond a
hundred dollars a barrel
what do you think I want to know what
you think on that of course why is this
a concern because the potential to
create a recession as a result of an
increasing price in oil if it gets too
high it really constricts and it
tightens the economy to a certain degree
it's not good when it's whenever that
negative that creates problems but of
course if it gets too high there's
there's this you know happy medium that
often you know it's challenging to to
get at because usually either one
extreme or the other crime is up poverty
is up and real wages are down this is an
absolutely a bad recipe and so that's
the kind of overwhelming
um you know circumstance that we're
dealing with for a lot of people they
cannot handle this they can't handle
this and so I ask you the question as
well what is the weakest link do you
think it's going to be the stock bubble
do you think it's going to be China what
is happening right now today because I'm
seeing a lot of people that are stranded
at this time more expensive gasoline and
Diesel are already pressuring consumer
and corporate balance sheets while also
making the headline inflation look
higher than would otherwise be these are
going up Transportation costs as a
result of that and then this is just
showing the correlation between the
stock market and Brent oil price all
right over you know six since 2016 up
into the present there was only one
moment in 2022 that these were not
correlated
and so it tells you that when we look at
you know what's going on I I think the
potential here is that
you know the markets can be up and oil
can be up that's an absolute
possibility okay so don't necessarily
think that if it's too high then it
induces the recession immediately and so
on uh there's there's always a different
Dynamic taking place so just just pay
attention to it that's all
um when we talk about oil it's just the
most important commodity and it's kind
of that indicator of uh oh uh oils at
150 a barrel big concern companies start
getting freaked out and everything we're
not there yet but we're inching closer
so let's keep an eye on it all right and
then we have the ones at the beginning
of the end the fossil fuels says Global
energy agency
um
I don't know if that's the case and of
course you can chime in on that I would
appreciate it but it's just showing us
that we're moving in a different
direction and governments are pouring
billions and trillions of dollars into
solar wind and pretty much everything
else they can even nuclear in some cases
and so they're going a different route
but the world is still dominated by
things like coal and so we'll see that
change over time for sure and even if it
brings us into more difficult times like
we got to pay more more inflation more
wage more uh you know just say real
world
uh you know our incomes basically
declining in real terms yeah they're
going to do it anyway
all right so what can you do about it
you're going to sit there you're gonna
lie down you're gonna take it well you
got some actions that you need to take
but the first thing the absolute first
thing is that you understand the current
state of the broad economy so we zoom
out 30 000 feet and we look at the broad
economy where are we at today we're
going to take that and then we are going
to look at it in a matter of all right
these are the circumstances here's
inflation here's the job situation like
all of these details that's one thing
the next you got to think in your
personal circumstances your financial
situation how is that so now I've come
down to my level okay well on this I've
got that this is my debt scenario this
is my wage this is my my salary all of
that then you got to be realistic
sometimes your job can't pay the
expenses so maybe you've got to start
looking at moving Maybe that's the best
opportunity sometimes you say well I'm
going to lose this but I know this and
this are going to help me in the long
term so it is the best decision
you know it's a hard decision I know and
maybe learning a new skill to get a
raise or potentially a new job is the
best opportunity for use you've got to
address this first start with the broad
economy and that means like around you
then you're going to look at your own
circumstances financially and then you
got to go and to start saying okay what
actions am I going to take am I going to
learn a new skill am I going to start a
side hustle all of these details all
right if you want to know more about
that that will be broken down in detail
in compass but you can also look right
here on Discord and I've got lots of
details so you go to the left hand side
and there's all these different things
about what you can do I would highly
recommend checking that out the link is
in the description and the comment of
the day from ship TJ there's no economy
without energy there's no economic
growth without cheap easily extractable
energy
and so as we see the price of oil going
up if natural gas is up all these
different things they run the economy
and of course they're too expensive that
slows things down so I want to thank you
for being here today I want to thank you
for that comment every day I appreciate
what you have to say that's it for today
and I hope to see you tomorrow take care